The table lists the six areas of adjustment for first-year college students as academic, cultural, emotional, financial, intellectual, and social. Each area of adjustment is further categorized under "What is it?" and "Students exhibit it when they" as follows. The adjustment factors under "What is it?" are listed as follows. Academic: Students will take a more active role in their learning than they had to in high and have the ability to meet the increasing demands of change. Cultural: Students will interact with others of various cultures, religious beliefs, sexual identities and orientations, ages, and abilities. Emotional: Students will need to be prepared for the stressors of college and develop habits and behaviors to cope with these changes. Financial: Students will need to demonstrate basic financial literacy, an understanding of the cost of college, and methods of paying for those costs. Intellectual: Students will have the opportunity to join an academic community that includes classmates, faculty, support personnel, and administrators. Social: Students will be faced with shifts in their relationships, finding a new peer group and handling the pressure of fitting in. The adjustment factors under "Students exhibit it when they" are listed as follows. Academic: Take an active role in learning; Attain college-level learning strategies; Are open to feedback and change; Make adjustments to learning strategies as needed. Cultural: Accept and welcome differences in others; Recognize the inclusion of their own cultural identity; Seek opportunities to explore other cultures. Emotional: Readily handle the stressors of college life; Develop emotional coping strategies; Seek support from campus resources. Financial: Manage money independently; Recognize the costs of college; Explore job and aid opportunities. Intellectual: Engage in intellectual discussions; Are open to new ideas, subject areas, and career choices; Integrate new ideas into belief systems. Social: Join a club or organization; Form supportive, healthy relationships; Understand the impact of peer pressure; Manage conflict in relationships.




